---
layout: other
title: Research projects
---

<h1 class = "pageTitle"> Research </h1>

<h4> Research articles </h4>

<a href= "https://epjdatascience.springeropen.com/articles/10.1140/epjds/s13688-023-00385-7"> <b> Revealing the determinants of gender inequality in urban cycling with large-scale data</b></a> with L. Napoli, P. Bajardi, A. Panisson, A. Perotti, M. Szell and R. Schifanella <br> Published on  <a href= "https://epjdatascience.springeropen.com/"> EPJ Data Science</a> 

<i> Cycling is an outdoor activity with massive health benefits, and an effective solution for sustainable urban transport. Despite these benefits and the recent rising popularity of cycling, most countries still have a negligible uptake. This uptake is especially low for women: there is a largely unexplained, persistent gender gap in cycling. To understand the determinants of this gender gap in cycling at scale, here we use massive, automatically-collected data from the tracking application Strava on outdoor cycling for 61 cities across the United States, the United Kingdom, Italy and the Benelux area. While Strava data is particularly well-suited to describe the behavior of regular cyclists and its generalizability to occasional cyclists requires further investigation, the size of these data and their characteristics represent an unprecedented opportunity for the literature on cycling. Leveraging the associated gender and usage information, we first quantify the emerging gender gap in recreational cycling at city-level. A comparison of cycling rates of women across cities within similar geographical areas—where the penetration of Strava is assumed to be comparable—unveils a broad range of gender gaps. On a macroscopic level, we link this heterogeneity to a variety of urban indicators and provide evidence for traditional hypotheses on the determinants of the gender-cycling-gap. We find a positive association between female cycling rate and urban road safety. On a microscopic level, we identify female preferences for street-specific features in the city of New York. Assuming that the determinants of the gender-cycling-gap are similar across regular and occasional cyclists, our study suggests that enhancing the quality of the dedicated cycling infrastructure may be a way to make urban environments more accessible for women, thereby making urban transport more sustainable for everyone.  <\i>

<h4> Data releases </h4>

<a href="https://www.nature.com/articles/s41597-022-01174-z"> <b>High spatial resolution dataset of La Mobilière insurance customers</b></a> with  Emanuele Massaro, Claudia R. Binder & Rossano Schifanella. <br> Published on  <a href= "https://www.nature.com/sdata/"> Scientific Data</a> 
  
  <i> We present the La Mobilière insurance customers dataset: a 12-year-long longitudinal collection of data on policies of customers of the Swiss insurance company La Mobilière. To preserve the privacy of La Mobilière customers, we propose the data aggregated at two geographical levels, based on the place of residence of the customer: postal areas and municipalities. For each geographical area, the data provides summary statistics on: (i) the demographic characteristics of the customer base, (ii) characteristics of vehicles insurance policies and (iii) characteristics of housing and building insurance policies. To assess the validity of the data, we investigate the temporal consistency of the data and the representativeness of La Mobilière customer base along several dimensions (total population, percentage of foreigners, etc.). We also show how the insurance data can reliably model the spatial patterns of socio-economic indicators at a high geographical resolution. We believe that the reuse of this data provides an opportunity for researchers to broaden the socio-economic characterization of Swiss areas beyond the use of official data sources. <\i>

